.TH SLINK2DALI 1 2011/04/27
.SH NAME
slink2dali \- SeedLink to DataLink

.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
slink2dali [options] slhost dlhost

.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBslink2dali\fP connects to a \fISeedLink\fR server, requests data
streams and forwards the received packets to a \fIDataLink\fR server.

This program is designed to run continuously.  Because the SeedLink
and DataLink protocols are stateful this program should be very
tolerant of connection breaks and subsequent re-connections.

.SH OPTIONS

.IP "-V         "
Print program version and exit.

.IP "-h         "
Print program usage and exit.

.IP "-v         "
Be more verbose.  This flag can be used multiple times ("-v -v" or
"-vv") for more verbosity.

.IP "-d         "
Configure the SeedLink connection in "dial-up" mode.  The remote
server will close the connection when it has sent all of the data in
it's buffers for the selected data streams.  This program will then
exit cleanly and save the connection state if a state file has been
specified.

.IP "-N \fInetcode\fR"
Change the SEED network code to \fInetcode\fR in all records
forwarded.

.IP "-x \fIstatefile\fR[:\fIinterval\fR]"
During client shutdown the last received sequence numbers and time
stamps (start times) for each data stream will be saved in this file.
If this file exists upon startup the information will be used to
resume the data streams from the point at which they were stopped.  In
this way the client can be stopped and started without data loss,
assuming the data are still available on the server.  If
\fIinterval\fR is specified the state will be saved every
\fIinterval\fR packets that are received.  Otherwise the state
will be saved only on normal program termination.

.IP "-s \fIselectors\fR"
This defines default selectors.  If no multi-station data streams are
configured these selectors will be used for uni/all-station mode.
Otherwise these selectors will be used when no selectors are specified
for a given stream using the '-S' or '-l' options.

.IP "-l \fIlistfile\fR"
A list of streams will be read from the given file.  This option
implies multi-station mode.  The format of the stream list file is
given below in the section \fIStream list file\fR.

.IP "-S \fIstream[:selectors],...\fR  (requires SeedLink >= 2.5)"
The connection will be configured in multi-station mode with optional
SeedLink selectors for each station, see examples below.  \fIstream\fR
should be provided in NET_STA format.  If supported by the server
the '*' or '?' wildcards may be used in the NET_STA designation.  If
no selectors are provided for a given stream, the default selectors,
if defined, will be used.

.IP "-tw \fIstart:[end]\fR  (requires SeedLink >= 3)"
Specifies a time window applied, by the server, to data streams.  The
format for both times is year,month,day,hour,min,sec; for example:
"2002,08,05,14,00:2002,08,05,14,15,00".  The end time is optional but
the colon must be present.  If no end time is specified the server
will send data indefinately.  This option will override any saved
state information.

Warning: time windowing might be disabled on the remote server.

.IP "\fIslhost\fR"
Specifies the address of the SeedLink server in host:port format.
Either the host, port or both can be omitted.  If host is omitted then
localhost is assumed, i.e.  ':18000' implies 'localhost:18000'.  If
the port is omitted then 18000 is assumed, i.e.  'localhost'
implies 'localhost:18000'.  If only ':' is specified 'localhost:18000'
is assumed.

.IP "\fIdlhost\fR"
Specifies the address of the DataLink server in host:port format.
Either the host, port or both can be omitted.  If host is omitted then
localhost is assumed, i.e.  ':16000' implies 'localhost:16000'.  If
the port is omitted then 16000 is assumed, i.e.  'localhost'
implies 'localhost:16000'.  If only ':' is specified 'localhost:16000'
is assumed.

.SH "SeedLink SELECTORS"
\fINotes regarding selectors from a SeedLink configuration file\fR

The "selectors" parameter is used to request specific packets,
in effect limiting the default action of sending all data.
A packet is sent to the client if it matches any positive selector
(without leading "!") and doesn't match any negative selectors
(with "!").  The general format of selectors is LLSSS.T, where LL is
location, SSS is channel, and T is type (one of DECOTL for Data,
Event, Calibration, Blockette, Timing, and Log records).  "LL",
".T", and "LLSSS." can be omitted, meaning "any".  It is
also possible to use "?" in place of L and S.

.nf

Some examples:
BH?            - BHZ, BHN, BHE (all record types)
00BH?.D        - BHZ, BHN, BHE with location code '00' (data records)
BH? !E         - BHZ, BHN, BHE (excluding detection records)
BH? E          - BHZ, BHN, BHE & detection records of all channels
!LCQ !LEP      - exclude LCQ and LEP channels
!L !T          - exclude log and timing records
.fi

.SH "Stream list file"
The stream list file used with the '-l' option is expected to
define a data stream on each line.  The format of each line is:

.nf
<net> <station> [selectors]
.fi

The selectors are optional.  If default selectors are also specified
(with the '-s' option), they they will be used when no selectors are
specified for a given stream.  An example file follows:

.nf
----  Begin example file -----
# Comment lines begin with a '#' or '*'
# Example stream list file for use with the -l argument of slclient or
# with the sl_read_streamlist() libslink function.
GE ISP  BH?.D
NL HGN
MN AQU  BH? HH?
II *    BHZ
----  End example file -----
.fi

.SH "CAVEATS"

After receiving a data packet from the SeedLink server slink2dali will
forward the Mini-SEED record to the DataLink server.  If the
connection to the DataLink server is broken slink2dali will
continuously try to re-connect, if the program is terminated before
the record is forwarded the packet will be lost because the statefile
will be written as if the record were sucessfully forwarded.  The
potential, while quite small, can be minimized by running slink2dali
on the same host as the DataLink server.

.SH AUTHOR
.nf
Chad Trabant
IRIS Data Management Center
.fi
